2016 Both parties made clear that Trump's allegation -- which the White House has not offered any evidence to support, and which Obama administration officials emphatically deny -- won't be dropped anytime soon, as even GOP lawmakers who have backed Trump said they'd investigate.
Rep. Devin Nunes of California, the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said his committee would look into whether the federal government was conducting wiretapping of campaign officials as part of the panel's investigation into Russian meddling in the US election.
"One of the focus points of the House Intelligence Committee's investigation is the U.S. government's response to actions taken by Russian intelligence agents during the presidential campaign," Nunes said in a statement Sunday. "As such, the Committee will make inquiries into whether the government was conducting surveillance activities on any political party's campaign officials or surrogates, and we will continue to investigate this issue if the evidence warrants it."
Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee announced Sunday night they planned to ask White House Counsel Donald McGahn to provide the committee with a list of communications between the White House and the Department of Justice regarding probes into Russian interference in the election.
Other Democrats, meanwhile, accused Trump of advancing yet another unfounded conspiracy in an effort to distract from the issues dogging his administration in its early weeks.
"You 2016 make up something and then you have the press write about it, and then you say, 'everybody's writing about this charge,'" House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said on CNN's "State of the Union." "It's a tool of an authoritarian, to just have you always be talking about what you want to be talking about."
Their comments come after Trump's aides asked Congress to look into whether the Obama administration abused its investigative powers during the 2016 election.
"Reports concerning Rep ntially politically motivated investigations immediately ahead of the 2016 election are very troubling," White House press secretary Sean Spicer said in the statement, which he also posted on Twitter. "President Donald J. Trump is requesting that as part of their investigation into Russian activity, the congressional intelligence committees exercise their oversight authority to determine whether executive branch investigative powers were abused in 2016.
